# CS-230-Software-Design-Document

# Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?
The client for this project was The Gaming Room who were currently developing a game application called Draw It Or Lose It that was already out on the Android platform. The client wanted to develop a web-based version of the app that works on multiple platforms. In the game Draw It Or Lose It, the application will show images as clues to the teams where they will guess a puzzle to win a point, with the game being four rounds that last one minute each. The drawings are loaded at a steady rate and are complete at the 30 second mark. If the time expires before the team guesses the puzzle, the other teams will have 15 seconds to solve the puzzle. The software requirements include: a game must be able to have one or more teams involved; each team will have multiple players assigned to it; game and team names must be unique; only one instance of a game can exist in memory at any given time.

# What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?
I think I did well on the recommendation portion of this document as I was very thorough in my answers and reasoning. When it came to the recommendations, some of the suggestions I made came from personal experience with the particular operating system or feature mentioned in the document as well as research I had done to support my reasoning as to why I suggested my recommendations to the client. All in all, I was very pleased with how this section of the document turned out and I was given valuable information when doing research for these recommendations.

# What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?
Working through a design document can be very helpful when developing code, because the software requirements are laid out, the design constraints can be seen, and a domain model with a UML diagram to show how the application will be developed is available as well. Having these items in the document helped out tremendously, especially when building code as you can see exactly what needs to be done without having to go multiple places to find the answers you are looking for, and the organization as a whole helped save a lot of time and effort so the work was completed in an efficient manner.

# If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
If I could choose one part of this document to revise, it would be the evaluations of development requirements. There are some improvements I could make to make it more understandable and to get my point across better. I did make some recommended changes to the document, but there is always room for improvement. I feel that I could have gone a little more in depth with my evaluations as I feel I have omitted some information as to maintain a sence of clarity and to make sure that the evaluation table still looked presentable, however I dont think it would have hurt it much if I did add additional information to the evaluation section of the document.

# How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
Interpreting the user’s needs and implementing them into the software design is important. I did this by taking into consideration the software and design requirements that were requested by the client, along with what the game already consists of in the application. Another way to interpret the user’s needs is to put yourself in their shoes and think about besides what is required, what else would you want to see in the game to be included. It is important to consider the user’s needs, because in the long run they are your clients. If you create a positive experience for the user, they will talk to other people about your product and will most likely follow other things you create. This will help to create a better business relationship for the designer and the client and will help determine whether your project was successful or not.

# How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
I approached designing this software through object-oriented design and the use of the software design template. I believe the techniques I used worked well together. As long as the project I am working on uses an object-oriented language, I will use an object-oriented design approach because it is easier to separate and group codes together, so they are easily changed and added on to. For the most part this strategy that I used for this project seemed to workout really well for me so I plan to use this strategy again in the future if I ever find myself in this particular situation or if I find a similar software application where this strategy could apply.
